...with Lieutenant Colonel McNerney at the Halstead Library, 14 March, 2006.
We're standing by some of the books that have been recently acquired for this library, and we're just looking at really several hundred readers' digest condensed books, and you were about to say, Brian.
Well, among these, we also have the special edition large type,
which might be good especially for someone learning English, such as these books, ultimately all the books in the library are ultimately intended to be donated to Iraqis when the time comes that the Americans leave.
And in the interim, we'll be donating some.
So I think the Leaders Digest volumes actually make good nominees for early donations because
First of all, each one has four or five different books.
So with each volume, the Iraqis are really getting three, four, five books.
Typically, these aren't extremely difficult literature.
It's not like giving them a technical manual or a specialized piece of writing.
And it obviously kind of has diversity built in.
And it's been watered down, of course.
But it is what it is.
We know what they are.
You're trying to find some use for what you've got, and I think that you're coming up with a strategy to use a number of these books that have come your way.
Another one of the challenges I came across, when the books arrived, and there was about, I'd say about 300 boxes of books.
And that's how many shipments have you had?
There was one pallet shipment.
And that was a couple weeks ago.
And that was, I'd say, about a month ago.
And I can go back later and check and find out when they physically arrived.
I kept the shipping labels there.
But I didn't know what was in the boxes.
I told them, I said, look, you guys are donating.
This is a drive orchestrated by the veterans from World War II, who I met last year in Germany.
You guys send what you want to send, and we'll figure out what there is and how to make the best use of it.
But for example, one of the things that I came across when I have now gone through that whole first set of books, and we have 600 more boxes coming, is you can see here, down in the bottom, and this entire box here,
are nothing but Harlequin romances.
So now, here I am, an Army soldier, sitting in Iraq, looking for books to give Iraqis.
And I have, I don't know, what, maybe 300, 400 Harlequin romances.
These are not typically books that Army male soldiers tend to read a lot.
I mean, they're just not.
So what I need to do is I need to find somewhere within the Army system
where there's a large density of women.
In addition, tomorrow, Mr. Matham, an Iraqi from Balad, the local city, will come, and I'll show him these, and through a translator, ask him if this would be something that would be acceptable to donate.
Part of the issue with getting to Iraqis is you've got to consider whether the material is offensive or potentially offensive.
Over here on this wall, I put all the religious-related literature.
And, of course, you got a lot of that too, right?
Well, again, we've got an entire shelf, basically.
The top two shelves are straight to religion of all different kinds, mostly Bibles and Christian literature.
The bottom two shelves, or the lower two shelves that are full there, are self-help manuals of every conceivable nature.
And so I frankly think, here on the Hooper Boxes, I frankly think that a lot of it is stuff
It's going to have very limited use.
But, you know, I'll tell you, Nick, like I think most people that love books, I'm very, very averse to throwing any book away.
Over here, out of all the books that I've opened, this is the only stack.
This constitutes what I have already said is probably not suitable for anybody.
And it's not suitable either because it's really obsolete.
For example, dress well on $1 a day.
Now, how long ago do you think it was since a person could dress well on $1 a day?
As you look at the fashions on the front.
I have to tell you, this is the kind of stuff you really got to tell them not to send.
You'd be nice, but you're going to have to be, I think, for this weeded out.
Before it comes here, you see, why would somebody say that?
Now, this you might find interesting.
The Army does have a program.
to mail books to soldiers in the field.
And through this Counts Agency, Curtis Libraries, Counts Library Services, Nicaragua Falls, New York, or Niagara Falls, this is an example of a box of books, all brand new books, all in good condition, that the Army mails for us to distribute to soldiers.
It's just a variety package, basically.
And so we do have that.
You know, you've got this book here, Support Our Troops, Quotations on Patriotism, which I've actually, I know where it is.
It's right up here.
I set it aside.
But what I did get, despite the odd stuff, stuff that probably is not going to have an audience, still, I think most of the stuff we got is going to be useful in some form or another.
For example, over here, we look like a bunch of boxes.
Each one of these boxes over here on this wall contains anywhere from, say, 20 to 50
maybe 16 paperbacks.
So every one of these is a load of paperback books.
All of these.
Not only these, but come here and look at this.
This is the room that I'm trying to explain it to you.
All these are pre-box paperbacks.
These boxes we will have, when convoys go out on the road across Iraq, other board operating bases, we will give the convoy two or three boxes.
They will take the boxes to those fobs, those remote fobs that are not, you know, well-built up like here at Watt, and leave those boxes for soldiers that are out in the fringes.
So... See, wouldn't it be great?
Like, in World War II, they had the Armed Forces editions.
Yeah, I would love to.
I've considered trying to start collecting some of those, but... Well, I know some people, however, they're very hard to get them.
They're very collectible.
But what a great project that was.
Unfortunately, wouldn't it be nice if there was something like that today?
that we're getting books out to the guys and the gals.
Now this area right here, this is what was originally here.
In other words, when I first came over here three months ago, this was the only part of the library.
This shelf was not here.
There was a low, that shelf over there was here.
This is one of the ones we had made.
This was the only area that had books, and it was, I'd say it was 95% paperback, which I've already started moving.
And we've started putting in all these hardback.
These are bestsellers over here.
What you see here in the corner, of course, these are all suspense and mysteries.
I was amazed at how many suspense novels there were.
Obviously these are very, very popular.
One thing that's interesting about just asking for whatever people send is I think you do get a different read of the kind of books people collect.
Well, I was collecting, so I should be reading.
Or buy.
The kind of books they buy, purchase, and keep for whatever reason.
Either they give them away or throw them away or whatever they'll do with it.
But this part, this will be Mystery Corner.
This probably will be also Mysteries over here.
We will probably keep that as a paperback shelf and make that as giveaways.
So we'll always want some books to give away here.
This is reference.
You can see here I've got dictionaries.
I've got foreign language books.
I've got two New York Public Library books here.
I've got some humor.
And then most of this here is biography.
And I'm just trying to get it all in one place right now.
And so this section will mostly, the biographies you'll be able to check out, these best sellers over here, these are all books that I didn't, you know, if I put Tom Clancy, for example, in my fiction section, they'll eat up 10% of my space.
gave these guys that I know that there's a lot of Robert Lovell.
I know that there's a lot of... And this will be very popular.
I think it will.
This right here is a book that I told you about, a small town in Germany.
I mean, the cover is actually in excellent condition.
Although this is a book club edition, which to me I think is... You've got collectible books.
It doesn't matter.
Okay.
You know, we have Gresham.
This here is women's romance.
Again, the popularity of Harlequin's and women's romance, I mean, this is the Barbara Delschitzky's, Belleville Plaine, Joan Collins, all that kind of stuff.
I mean, I'll tell you,
There are female soldiers over here that will gobble this up.
And so it'll serve a function.
But when you talk about ultimately going over to the Iraqis... I don't think that this would go.
But I need the Iraqis to tell me that.
The only thing I really will not give them is anything that is conceivably pornographic, evangelistic, religious materials, or something that maybe involves hate crimes or something of a...
offensive political nature that would be insulting.
Other than that, my objective is to give them as much of the material as I can and let them decide what is acceptable and what's not.
But there are some subjective decisions.
There are some cutoff points that have to be made.
The point I made to them last week when I was in Balad is this is part of the responsibility of living in a democracy, is hearing voices that you may not personally approve of or agree with, but that's part of what
That's part of the risk that we take a living in a democracy.
So I really don't want to be in a position of censoring their reading, but I don't want to offend the Muslim sensibility either.
And it's a balance, a delicate balance.
So you get, I think, a sense of the size.
This room is completely empty.
This is literature.
And the way I'm going to do literature, for the most part, paperbacks, I'm shipping out.
With literature, I made an exception, and I thought, because this is a learning library also, I want to have an access, and here we have Faulkner.
I want to make sure that soldiers have access to the great literature of our culture, so to speak.
And, of course, there's a lot of subjective decisions made here.
There's a lot of, say, Oprah Winfrey's picks that probably aren't literature in the classical sense, but are good enough that it meets the criteria.
We've got Marcel Proust, Patrick O'Brien, John Steinbeck.
There's a lot of good stuff here, Roberts and Davies.
These are some interesting books.
Some of these are signed by the authors.
This here, I think I told you about yesterday, On Strategy, the Vietnam War in Context by Harry Summers.
It obviously became a very popular book.
It also has the Army War College fly leaf that was placed inside of General Merritt.
That's kind of an odd little bit of a stain there to the left.
But nonetheless, this became a document that was
quite influential in professional military circles after Vietnam.
It's the first real critique of the military's performance in that war.
Here, we have a stack.
These are two boxes and some loose books, all by the same woman, obviously mailed by her, probably, I mean... And she's the author?
And she's the author.
You know, one lady is the author.
You think she said... I think she did.
I think when they said...
You know, bring books.
She said, okay.
So that's Uni, what's her name?
Uni Hoell.
Hoell, H-O-E-L.
And there's at least, and here we have a picture of her, and there's at least... What does it say about her?
...from Norway, born into a world of music, played at, uh, studied at the Oslo Music Conservatory.
Okay, and who's the publisher, or is it self-published, I think?
Um... You must have a lot of self-published books.
Published by Pentland Press, Raleigh, North Carolina.
So, very, very interesting, and three different books.
Here, by her, the overtones, brittle cradle, and absolute pitch.
I mean... It's fiction?
It's, uh... Actually, I think it's a memoir.
Although, you know what?
Let me look.
A novel.
No, this is fiction.
No, it's fiction, yeah.
Printed on acid-free paper.
I always... I think you're going to have to pull a lot.
Well, you're going to have to do that.
You're started, and that's fabulous, but if you're really going to try and create a library, you just can't take everything everyone sends you, you know?
See, this is just the first.
These are books about the Middle East.
I segregated them from those over there.
Let's see what you got there.
What have we got?
How many books have you got?
I think I have about 3,000.
And in here now?
In here now, including in those boxes with paperbacks.
Suez Through Egyptian Eyes, Arabia, A Journey Through the Labyrinth,
Jonathan Rabban.
Oh, really?
I know him, yeah.
He's a wonderful writer.
That's an ex-libris, so that was formerly in a library.
Here we got T.D.
Lawrence, 1927.
That's an ex-libris.
U.S.
Naval Training Station, San Diego, California.
And that was printed in 19... Original copyright 26, but printed in 27.
So that probably was printed, actually, not long after he wrote it.
I got two copies of that.
It's interesting.
We have different paper bed editions.
A bed of red flowers about Afghanistan.
So these are books, obviously, that are of interest to what we're doing here.
Sir?
Yeah.
Okay, let's see.
Here's two right here.
I got my sections.
Don't put them in my sections because I know what to do.
Block of instruction right here.
Two soldiers, me and Roby will be back.
Which section do you want Roby to start with?
I just gotta go get a yellow ribbon right now.
My section do I want him to start with?
Yeah.
Which one are you going to give him?
Well, I guess it depends on what we want to do.
If we want to alphabetize or if we want to... What I'm going to do is I'm going to have them both work together in here to finish off the mysteries and pull out the paperbacks.
Do you want them to finish the mysteries?
Yeah, and pull all those paperbacks out in boxes.
Okay.
So, when Roby comes in, he can work with me in this room.
Okay, we'll be back.
This is all fiction over here, too.
This is all art-bound fiction.
We'll be back in, like, 22 minutes.
So, if you just get them going.
22?
22 minutes.
Okay, because it was 17 from when you said you'd be here.
But I had to print out on your computer, and I had to listen to Major Arnie.
It would be bullshit.
Did you get the sequence?
There it is.
No, I forgot all about that.
Bill Jensen emailed you.
I opened up that email for Bill.
1745.
1745, he wants us there?
Yes, on the roof to see the sunset.
So it has to be 1745.
So when we see the sunset, we've got to be there at 1745.
That's correct.
So we've got to leave here.
We might leave here at 1630.
Because I'm going to take you over to the Green Bay.
Yeah, they've got to get the stars first.
So I have to have the turf at 1750.
No, but...
1630.
Okay, right.
And I'm going to leave you.
I'm going to fly back.
I'm going to take Ferguson out.
So you're going to have him for a while because I'm going to take Ferguson.
Why don't you all ground your stuff back in there and the empty boxes.
Okay, you got them going?
We're going to want you to grab about five to ten of these empty boxes in here.
In here, you have a whole bunch of paperbacks.
Here, if you look at it, you can probably see is
That's a great quote.
History and military.
Peter the Great Quote.
Oh, yeah, Robert Massey.
Robert Massey.
I think one of people was surprised.
The last Lionel I went, Manchester is terrific.
So is Manchester.
Here's another Manchester one.
Robert Tuckman.
What's the other Manchester one?
Gore and the Dream.
Yeah, that's it.
I don't know if you're familiar with the West Point history series, Civil War.
No.
Oh, these are magnificent.
Let me show you this.
Actually, that's not what I'm looking for.
I'm looking forward.
This down here.
This is the West Point series.
Every cadet at West Point has issued a complete set of battle maps.
This one here is the American War, so 1900 to 1953.
And these are magnificently done.
These are incredible study materials.
So here we have World War II.
It goes through and shows by zone.
It explains all the different symbol of the unit.
Markings, what we call operational terms and graphics.
And then you have maps.
And then it explains and depicts the development of the areas of concentration in battle.
So for example, in here, we could go to Germany.
Here's March 1945.
And I can actually show you the units.
Here's Bradley.
And Bradley's, not Bradley, I'm sorry, Patton, Patton's Third Army,
You can see it here.
It's basically on its drive to where they ended up, which was not far from Passau and Pilsen, encircling the river.
Those are amazing.
These are tremendous.
That must be in multiple volumes, right?
Each cadet gets, I'd say, probably about 20 volumes of these.
Really?
And believe it or not, remember this.
On graduation day, every year in West Point, there's two things cadets throw away.
All their uniforms, they just take them and dump them in the dumpsters.
And so every graduation day, all the kids of the faculty and so on that live on post, they know that the cadets are throwing all their old uniforms away, which are, of course, gorgeous uniforms.
The cadet just wants to be done with it.
So they do the dumpster diving adventures, and they go out and they try to salvage hats and shakos.
The other thing cadets throw away is their books.
And on graduation day, you'll find
Hundreds of these, and they're gorgeous.
They're incredible to be throwing away.
They're quite expensive, too.
But the cadets dump it, you know, because they want to be done with it and clear all their stuff off and move on.
You can see we've got some of the Bruce Patton, Bruce Catton, Civil War, beautiful, nice copy of Brains and I'm Wasp.
Oh, yeah, the Library of America.
I thought this was an interesting little piece on Waterloo, and I don't know where it came from.
I don't know who created it.
Colonel Nickerson, but it doesn't have any publication information.
So just a lot of... I'll make some military history.
At first, I was not pulling out paperback histories, but there's so many relevant military paperbacks here that I think soldiers would be good to read that I actually went back and I tried to pull as many of those and save them as I could.
A lot of these are books that most officers read.
Up there behind your head we have The Killer Angels by Michael Scherer.
That has been mandatory reading for all officers going through Command and General Staff College.
Virtually any officer in the Army of the rank of major and above almost certainly has read that book.
It's a cultural fixation of the military life today.
Similarly, you know, the Bruce Catton paperback series is something that I think a lot of Army officers would read.
So I tried to find things that are professionally relevant.
I mean, it's not a sophisticated library, but it's a whole lot more than what we had a month ago.
Oh, sure.
Yeah.
Battle Cry of Freedom.
Here I started separating military biographies.
General's Life by Bradley, General Patton's Soldier's Life by Hirshon, Colin Powell's book.
Wesley Clark.
Tom Brokaw's Greatest Generation.
This, in fact, is one of my favorite books on war.
When I was at West Point, I often was asked by cadets, sir, can you give me a reading list of the books that we absolutely have to read to be an educated soldier?
I said, well, the list has got to be short.
It's got to be not more than 10 books, because otherwise, it'll just be a list.
It's got to be an achievable list that the average lieutenant can handle.
And so I tried to come up with a list of about the ten books that I thought, you know, if you read these, they were probably fairly well prepared for war.
This is one of them.
And that is?
With the Old Breed by E.B.
Sludger, Marine and the Island Hopping Campaigns of World War II.
And, you know, I read an awful lot on Vietnam.
And Vietnam had its moments.
It's horrors.
Khe Sanh and Iodrain.
LZX-Ray in 1965.
But you read a book like this, and you read about men that are trapped in a small island space, when an enemy is determined to kill him, and you're trapped on that island, your buddy dies, and your fox is with you, and his corpse lays there with you, there's nowhere to go.
I mean, it's close combat of the most gruesome sort.
This is a valuable tool for soldiers, for officers.
because it's an unromantic depiction of what war is all about.
So you're happy, needless to say, ecstatic, to get a copy of that book, right?
Yeah, I'm happy to have that book there.
I mean, some of the other books I told the cadets about on the list, Tim O'Brien's Things They Carried, even though it's a work of fiction, it's a tremendous testament to the life of a soldier, an American soldier in Vietnam in a moment in time.
So let me ask you a question.
So you were thrilled that somebody donated that?
Yeah, I mean, it was a great contribution to the library.
Do you have funds to go out and buy books?
No, I do not have funds.
And in fact, some of the particulars of this library, when I originally started this project, I had to go through my Army staff judge advocate and see if it was legal for us to accept books.
And there were actually conditions under which we could accept the books.
One was it had to be unsolicited.
So because the veterans offered to help, and they took the initiative in offering to help us here, then I think we can say safely and honestly that it was their initiative.
That's one function.
The fact that we're in a war zone meant, and under combat theater rules,
In Germany, if we'd received these donations, all these hardbound books would have to become accountable properly within the army supply system.
I mean, that's a nightmare.
So, in essence, it becomes disadvantageous to accept books because you take on this massive accountability requirement.
By being here in combat and by intending the ultimate disposition to go to Iraqis, which was my intent from the very beginning,
This is not something that is designed to become part of the U.S.
Army accountability system.
This really is a transit library.
This is a temporary home until they eventually move into the hands of Iraqis.
And where do you think they're available?
I think that a lot of these books will end up in the town of Balad, right near here, B-A-L-A-D, which is the nearest town to El San Anaconda.
And I don't think all of them will, but...
My intent is to donate them in small groups at a time.
In other words, let them come and tell me what they want first and let them have those.
Rather than arrive at their doorstep, let's say, in the town of Balad with 10,000 books, I'd rather feed them small quantities of 100 to 300 to 400 books
and let them absorb them first and get a sense of what they're looking at.
Because they're not native English speakers.
They don't have the sensibility of knowing what the different books are the way we do.
So they have to kind of de-samiliarize.
You'd have to say it's a mixed bag with what you've got, right?
It is a mixed bag.
And at the same time, I'm very pleased with how much is here that I think will find use.
either by the soldiers or among the Iraqis.
For example, I don't think soldiers are going to have much use probably for the Reader's Digest books, and there's a lot of them, but I think that the Iraqis almost certainly will.
So there, you kind of look at the trade-offs between the two different reading publics, and I think in the end, we come out pretty good.
But yeah, there's a percentage, I think, that, and I'd probably say that
probably 10% of what we've got is probably not going to be used or is possibly discarded, maybe more than that.
Originally, I had told them only to send hardbacks, and generally they did.
They only sent hardbacks, and that was probably the only criteria I gave them, except I also told them don't send large quantities of magazines, because magazines are very heavy, so they eat up a lot of weight space on the aircraft,
But I did tell them that we would take National Geographic.
And the reason being is if we think about this as an opportunity to share American or Western culture with Iran, which I think it is in part, then what vision of that culture do we want to donate?
And I think National Geographic
is a magazine.
First of all, it's pictorial, so they have imagery.
So it inherently has a context.
So even to an Arabic reader that doesn't speak English, they already know what the article's about because they can see the theme in the photos.
And it's very good quality photography.
It's exceptionally good quality.
And the writing, I think, tends to be national geographic, tends to do very good work.
And it's international in flavor.
I saw when I was putting these up here the other day,
This edition right here of the National Geographic is women of Arabia.
I mean, perfect.
That's perfect.
You know?
I have not sat down and read.
I mean, that woman right there could be in Balad Iraq.
Yeah.
Let me see the covers we get today on it.
October 1987.
So I would guess that the Arabic world was a little different in 1987, almost 20 years ago.
So I did tell them that we would take National Geographic in particular among periodontists.
Did we bring my shawls in or did we leave them in the car?
Curtis took them because he's going to put them in the office.
Terrific.
I've been moving very slow because I've been doing this
The next thing, all these over here, these have got to be alphabetized.
And these three shelves here are essentially women's robberies.
Some of these are already, you can see, some of them are already there.
So we've got to basically get them on there, get the space, and they go back and kind of alphabetize them.
But you want, you just want these to be appetites, these three to be like your own?
Yeah, those are all romance novels.
All the page backs down below can come out.
Okay.
But what about these over here?
No, those are all staged.
Those are already been put up.
Those are like mass, those are bestsellers.
If you look at like Robert Lovellum, this is all W.P.
Griffin, all John Gershaw.
And this side too?
Let's do that other stuff.
Yeah, once we're done with that, we'll build this.
This is going to be a reference library.
Like here, you've got dictionaries.
It's like a reference.
So I'm going to want writer's books on this shelf and this shelf with the computer stuff.
These two will be reference.
These two will be biographies.
And all of these are biographies.
So it's just a matter of alphabetizing and getting in an easy word.
And then the bottom shelf, I think, will be textbooks.
Like all these here are like physics books.
Yes.
Mary Ann's court is over here.
Anyway, if you see something you want to read, if you see something that you think looks appealing, grab it, seriously, we still got to figure out how to read the ceremony more.
I don't know.
Okay, anyway, I think.
I don't want the flash right now.
Did you get what you needed to say?
Yeah.
I'm thinking.
At what point will you start?
Well, wait a minute.
I've got to have a little bit of packing.
Giving books to the Iraqis, do you think?
My hope is actually that I'll donate the very first book here tomorrow.
And if I can get them to take a handful of books with them, one box of books, as a symbolic gesture tomorrow, and then I hope to go down to the blog in early April.
And so if tomorrow Mr. Maytham can indicate what he thinks would be the kinds of books they would want first, then I'll start donating almost immediately.
Because I've got to make room for the other 600 boxes.
You've got Roby here, and you want me to take all these brown boxes and move them around the back so they're on that side, and then start filling in Charles's books, or what do you want me to do?
Well, no, I think, yeah.
That's an isolator.
That's what we're going to do.
Yeah, true.
That's an isolator.
Looks like.
We can put the green digest there.
There you go.
At least it would look pretty.
It would look pretty.
So we'll take all these boxes, me and Roby, and move them out here.
What I was going to do, I was going to finish packing this box here off those.
And then you get another empty box, get all the paperbacks that are here out, then we can move the table to the other room where we have them.
Okay.
Are we present?
I put some water in there.
It's her fault.
Yeah, okay.
Okay.
So, then we move the table, one table here, these three tables are going to form a semicircle where you put like water or whatever in there and put them on.
You can take this off.
Yeah, I could.
I want to throw it off.
Just the box, not the box.
Do you have any empty boxes?
Yeah.
I don't think of empty boxes right here.
Do you have to use your library for it?
Yeah.
You got more?
I do, yeah.
Here's two great books here.
These in the record room.
Back right behind you, by the way, you can, I figured out they're handed over to China specialists.
These books are from China.
Which ones?
Basically, it's right behind these books here, you know, Mao and China, the Chinese.
So when you consider that you had a lot of these old World War II veterans, I mean, many of them are World War II veterans.
In fact, that's what they are, because they're the guys that packed the books.
You could see the kinds of things that they would read.
And there are some books I was going to ask you about.
Just some books that I have.
For example, a certain...
generation of military novels that never made it big.
Here we got The Thin Red Line.
There's another novel from World War II, The Night of the Tiger.
He's probably never sold very well.
He was a Marine in World War II.
He decided to fictionalize his experiences after the war.
Now you see it, this might have been a pretty interesting first edition.
Oh, it's a nice sleeve.
It's a great jacket, huh?
Yeah.
Melvin Voorhees, Show Me a Hero.
1954.
I mean, you'll have to imagine there's not a lot of copies of those out there floating around.
So when somebody borrows it, we're going to sign it out.
We're going to sign it out.
Yeah.
And that's...
Really, that's one of the decisions I had to make early on and figure out how else we'd do it.
Those are all children's books.
In fact, those might be the first books I get to the rack.
It's children's books, kind of.
Two boxes of children's books?
Yeah, two boxes of children's books.
When I say children's books... Why don't you mean picture books?
Well, I got Harry Potter.
But I also have...
You know, somebody might want to read that here.
Huckleberry Finn?
Yeah, well, that's not a children's book.
Well, but it's a little... Yeah.
What's that Jan Carroll thing there, Jan?
Jan Carroll is, you know... I know who she is.
What's that?
The Trellis and the Seed.
And it says, a book for encouragement for all ages.
And essentially, it's like poetry.
I mean, it's dispersed with pictures.
It's a picture book.
And we actually have a pretty good series...
I was going to say we have about 15 of her paperbacks, the adult edition paperbacks over here.
It's funny, when I look at the categories, straight literature is pretty simple, which is a lot of what's behind your head.
But you get a certain category, like, say, social history.
Here we have two studies Turkels.
The Good World War?
Seth Turkel?
Did you make that?
That is, yeah.
I interviewed him when that book came out.
That's a good book.
That was a great book.
Yeah, Seth Turkel is great.
So, um...
So you haven't signed out.
What can the size of the library be?
What are you looking for?
Well, from the very outset, I estimated that we couldn't go more than 10,000 volumes on hand.
And that would be, to go to 10,000, we would have to probably add another third of the number of bookshelves that we have here.
So it would absolutely require the construction of additional shelving
by DPW to absorb that many books.
And that'd be the max.
I think that for this to be functional, it's probably about 5,000 to 8,000 books.
And right now you say it's two or three, you think?
I'll tell you, we have about 3,000.
We had some books that were already here when we got here.
We added about 2,600 volumes.
And we've got more than half the shelf space full already.
I think it's, you know, on the one hand, if you get a lot of stuff, you can be a little bit more selective food from college.
Yeah.
But I don't, you know, my goal at the end of the day is not to destroy books.
That's what I, I don't want to find myself throwing books away.
Which is admirable, but I think you also have to be selective as to what you put out.
What you do is what you do is do it.
You can't just, because somebody gave it to you.
Yeah.
Well, especially because
they're shipping it halfway around the world.
I mean, this stuff is coming from North Carolina in this case.
There's another book drive being started now by the soldiers, the veterans of the 71st Division in South Carolina.
And you'll meet Mickey Dorson, who's the 71st boy.
And I'll be honest, I wouldn't be surprised if some of the other units that I didn't get to talk to last year that will be in reunion ceremonies in Passau, the word of mouth will spread.
And so I will have to play for construction and say, look, we've kind of got all this category, and I'm going to specifically ask you certain kinds of things, like basic primers in English language, teaching kids how to, you know, teaching an Arabic child how to speak English.
I have no idea what kind of book we need to do that.
Fortunately, through a lot of the veterans that are already part of the program and through librarians,
We have connections through, like, the University of North Carolina, the Journalism Department.
That goes out around to the right.
Oh, all that's medical.
Well, that's all got to go to blood in another medical center.
There's also some medical books around the corner.
So, I mean, we want to segregate all the medical materials.
That's very, very heavy.
Yeah, I got it.
Hey.
Look at her.
Hey, how you doing?
We're getting ready.
We're opening in the library tomorrow and making books available for soldiers to check out.
We'll be trying to get it into a condition that's ready.
I don't know.
That's not the one that I got, is it?
It was just sitting out there.
What is this?
That's the one I bought.
It's yours.
Yeah, it's mine.
No.
No, that's not yours.
No, it's not mine.
Hold on.
It's a different one.
Oh, where did that come from?
I got mine right here.
You know about this, right?
Yeah, I found out last night.
Some of these are selling for $80 a day.
It could have been.
I just didn't know.
Is that right?
Why?
Oh, yeah.
Because they're called pods.
Different pods come out.
Hey, Sergeant Smith.
Yes, sir.
Remember when we cleared this thing off, it keeps saying it's cold.
Okay, here.
And I don't know what... Remaining, seriously, remaining zero means it's all.
I tried to record stuff and it keeps saying... See if you can record us talking.
Hold on, hold on, hold on.
Let me erase.
With the pods.
I tried to erase.
I couldn't get it to do anything.
It completely ignored me.
It doesn't follow the instructions.
So, um... I got some soap last night with the PX.
Oh, okay.
See, I was going to ask.
Yeah.
I almost grabbed something and just ran it over to you because I thought, maybe, maybe not.
The kid that drove the bus, the bus drove me over and waited for me and drove me back.
The P.S.
is just down the street.
It's not far.
All the pods have different designs.
Some of the designs were not produced in very large numbers.
It's the basic rule of supply and demand.
If you've got one of those rare pods, and I don't know which ones are hard to find and which ones are not hard to find.
I mean, they're solders, I know, that get on eBay, you know, scouting out, you know, prices.
Yeah, I think that's going to look a lot better for tomorrow, visually, instead of the boxes.
But I do think the boxes are important.
Some, some boxes.
Is it recording?
1-28-17.
Hit record.
It should record.
Is it recording right now?
Well, I have no idea how you got that to work.
What would we do without NCOs, okay?
I have no idea.
Let me think about some of the other things here.
Hey, what else are I, Bailey?
Good.
You want for a book?
I'm just looking right now.
I'm seeing some of my compadres I'm traveling with.
Well, you know what?
Are you going to another farm or are you here?
Oh, I'm from Northern Canada.
Are you?
Why don't you take a box of books with you?
No, I'm serious.
No, we don't have any room.
We've got 114.
We've got a bag.
All these boxes out here are paperbacks.
These ones here are going to be for checkout, but around the corner, all these boxes are paperbacks that are available.
Okay, let me send them out in conference.
These are horrible.
A little bit.
Who made the shelves, too?
DPW, which is Department of, or Director of Physical Works.
DPW, Department of Physical Works.
Department of Public Works.
They made the sign, the memorial sign, and they made the shelves.
And these two NCOs here, the two Bostonian staff sergeants,
We painted?
Basically, they painted this room, and I got pictures of them painting the room, and they painted each other, but there were no public displays of affection.
And they went over to DPW, and they sweet-talked the guys over there and said, hey, we've got this thing.
We really need this right away.
It's really important.
We're going to open this library, and we don't have any shelves.
And we're really going to be in trouble if we open a library without shelves, because we won't have stacks of books.
So they got them to make these shelves very quickly.
I mean, literally, what, in about a week?
Yeah, it usually takes six weeks.
Five days.
So, you know, when you think about everybody that has become involved in this in some fashion, and I mean this from veterans, Dr. Rosemus and things that she's done to help kind of tie friends together, the public affairs guys,
The Education Center officer who runs this building, who is currently on R&R back in the States, he won't be here tomorrow.
His boss will be here, Colonel Hampton.
All the different organizations and pieces, it's really amazing, the different problems.
And now the Iraqis and the people that I've met in downtown a lot.
The civil affairs officer who took us in the convoy out there.
And you start to look at what it takes to make something on the surface that looks very simple.
happen and make it so that it can actually be realized is amazing.
It's phenomenal.
You know, I meant to grab it earlier, but there was a James Lee Burke paperback on the table when I first came in and I meant to grab it, but I didn't.
And now you know it's gone.
You know, it's funny, I'm sitting here looking over the back of my shoulder because I haven't had time to sort a lot of this in my mind.
I'm seeing books that I know have to be moved and
uh other categories and and the instinct in me is to constantly cultivate stuff where it belongs oh yeah you're a natural you know what is there a men's room here um i'm gonna shut this up converted mess all right a converted iraqi air force metal
A book that tells you how to fight like Bruce Lee, how to paint like Picasso, how to hit a home run like Babe Ruth, all in one book.
I have to wonder who makes these books.
This is what I mean when I'm talking about books that probably have no value.
Unfortunately, amateurs don't make a dime selling hardwoods.
I hate to throw it away.
The Iraqis basically tell me they have no use for it.
Otherwise, I've got a section on food service management.
Well, I'm starting to think that if you get a lot of books, or you get the books...
Actually, in some of the classics I've seen here, I saw the, what was it called, The Secret Spring, the first book about ecology.
Oh, Silent Spring.
Silent Spring.
There's a copy of that here somewhere in this collection.
And what a fascinating book to end up in this.
Yeah.
Here we have John Huntside, The Centaur.
It is a mix-up.
This book I talked to you about the other day, Don Lolo's Underworld.
Oh, that too.
And a nice hard book.
The first 50 to 100 pages are probably arguably some of the best writing on baseball.
Is that the copy you rented it?
Is it what?
Is that the copy you rented that in?
No, no, no.
That was here in the lives.
I mean, I had my own copy back at home that's autographed.
I did get DeLuel's.
You know, I think DeLuel should have gotten the Pulitzer.
I think so.
Of course, the Pulitzer's.
Oh, that was quite controversial when he gave it to a total unknown.
Well, there's a lot of people that don't like that, that didn't like Underworld.
In fact, a lot of people said that it's impossible to finish.
I have to agree to the extent that I can say that I've started, I've read the first 100 pages five times.
So I've read the number of pages in the book, but I haven't read the book.
I think I got probably halfway through.
There's a Jim Caron there.
See, this course is not alphabetized yet.
Ragtime by Yale Doctora, great book.
Tales of Old Henry.
Let me put this marcuso over here.
There's a lot of harlican romances over there.
All right.
Where's the women's interest section?
What do you mean by women's interest?
Paperback, women's interest.
I have some of those big novels.
It's part with all the Harlequins.
We're not keeping those.
No.
But I don't know where we're going.
We've got to find somebody that wants them.
Got it.
I don't think we're going to do those to a rag.
It's a hard call.
Driving Mr. Albert.
A trip across America with Einstein's brain.
See, I think this is literature.
This is something we want to keep.
I know, but I'm looking.
These are new books.
Tell me what's next we got.
This is the series... Where's the light seat?
Not anywhere near where I'm standing.
No, that's over here.
That's over here.
Oh, here we go.
How to remodel a man.
There you go.
Which man do you want to remodel?
Listen, I'm coping with difficult people for not Major Karnes' death overboard.
Oh, all right.
Um...
Social, social.
Yeah.
See this?
Here's military inside Delta Force and the Art of War.
Oh, yeah.
The Art of War.
Smithsonian History of Warfare.
This is part of that series I told you about, the calc that the Army sends out.
This is actually Army volume.
This is very good.
Inside Delta Force, very relevant.
And obviously, when I sort the military out,
I've got to figure out how to divide this up.
And I'm reluctant to do so to target the other two shipments.
And once I know, I assume this whole section here, at least, is going to be military history and history.
Okay, I've got to get somebody to the board.
We need to go through this stuff.
Okay, go to the board.
Look at what you have to do.
Yeah.
This is all good since we've kept all of our rights.
This is going postal.
This is just regular books that some people might like.
Paperbacks, yeah, that's all paperbacks.
Just throw them all in the box.
Do you have a section for Nora Roberts?
Do you?
That would be religion.
I had all that Nora Roberts stacked up the paperbacks.
I had like 25 Nora Roberts.
That's all religion?
Yeah, I should love it.
Oral Roberts?
It's Nora.
Why did they say Oral Roberts?
Nora Roberts.
Yeah, Nora Roberts is...
I don't know who she is.
It's kind of like women's romance.
Very, very popular than it.
How about this, the burglar who liked to quote Kipley?
I don't know.
Who's the author?
Union Times, Lawrence Block.
Oh, yeah?
It's a mystery.
He was going to say, he's a mystery writer, kind of like Sanders.
How to Live Cooler, Smarter, Faster, Better.
Yeah, that's good.
Several of them, yeah.
The tattooed soldier.
See, I think these soldiers
These are mailed as a box.
These are pretty interesting.
At home, the heart of Appalachia, straight to the universe.
I mean, this is just a mix.
It's a medalist.
But in a way, see, this does do, this is the Army actually its own program doing not what we're trying to do, but there's, this is a good box of mixed
appetites to ship out the soldiers on a file.
See, because when people ask me, what do you want?
The problem with that question is, I don't know because I don't know what my readers want.
I don't know what my readers want.
They're talking about a particular kind of audience, and I'm trying to guess what soldiers read.
They read, I mean, particularly an army in Iraq that reads that it's both an active army
And a National Guard Reserve Army means you've got tapes from all over the country, all walks of life.
And that's why I say we need a library that reflects the diversity of the normal American library.
So the question for me became, how are libraries organizing?
Here I am, a man with no library training, per se.
And so when I first thought of this, I said, how do I know how to build a library?
Where do I go to learn how to build a library?
So what I did was, I did several things.
First, I contacted the librarian at the Heidelberg Resource Library in Heidelberg, Military Library, Meg Tolick, who is a graduate of the University of Texas Library Science Program.
And I said, Meg, I'm sitting in a rock.
I think I'm going to end up with a whole bunch of books.
I don't know what kind, but I want to know how to organize these books.
What do I do with them?
How do I put them in some kind?
What do I do?
How do I do it?
So I literally had to start from zero.
What was she saying?
Well, she said, I'll give you some websites and things to start looking at.
She goes, I'll check around.
I'll see what's out there.
She gave me materials on some Army programs.
That's why I have these.
She shipped me these, actually.
We talked about to catalog or not to catalog.
That's one of the decisions.
There's an online program.
First of all, there's OCLC, of course, which can give you a very quick bibliographic data on every book.
But there's also a program that I can create a database.
But then the problem becomes, I'm sitting in the middle of Iraq.
Getting access to the internet is not a given.
Do we have internet outlets in this room?
No.
To get an internet outlet to this room in Iraq, you start to ask yourself all the hundred questions.
Is it worth it if the intent is to move the books to the Iraqis?
So every question like that led to 10 to 20 other questions.
I also contacted, one of the other things I did right away, is I joined the American Library Association.
I wrote them, and I asked them.
I said, I'm an army officer serving in Iraq.
I'm trying to build a library from scratch.
I need some technical expertise or advice.
Anybody that may have gone through this on their own, can you help me?
Did they?
Not really.
I mean, I didn't pursue it as aggressively as I could have, I think.
I was also getting help from other directions.
I mean, that's why I wrote you.
I was reaching out across a net, and I said, I'm going to hit all these data possibilities, and maybe I'll get some answers back, and maybe I'll get nothing.
And in some cases, I got a whole bunch of help.
Seriously.
I mean, you're sitting here today, really, because of this.
What I did get to the American Library Association, and I intend to follow up, several things came out of that.
Number one, they have a newsletter or news magazine that they published.
They're
The first issue that I received as a member was on military libraries.
No kidding.
I mean, what an irony.
Who would have figured that?
I don't know if they've ever done a military libraries issue before, but I have that.
The very first issue I ever received happened to have been military libraries.
That was one thing I got.
So in that issue, right there, I had contacts in the American Library Association for books about libraries.
Do you need to go back over to the room?
Are you going over?
Yes.
Why don't you go to her, and then you're going to come back when?
I'm going to be back here in an hour and ten minutes.
That would be perfect.
Is that good?
That's good.
Do you think you need a nap?
I do.
Do you?
Do I look like I'm fading?
Yeah.
I am.
It's kicking you up.
But that's okay, because I get more work time.
You go, you take a nap.
How about I come get you... What's going to buy and get you?
About 4.30.
I think two hours.
What's going to buy and get you at about 4.30?
That gives you two hours.
Two hours.
Do you mind?
No.
It's not a problem that...
All of a sudden, I hit the wall.
But tomorrow at this time, we're going to be dead in the middle of the dedication.
That's fine.
Okay.
This is my first full day.
You are hating very, very well.
Why don't you take this?
No, I got one.
Huh?
No, no, you don't have this one.
You sure?
Yeah.
I'll take it.
Thanks.
Can you get keys over there, Jesse?
Yeah.
I think I've been doing pretty good.
I think you're doing great.
And I got tape.
And my shawls are in your office, right?
Yeah, yeah.
So we can just leave them there.
So when you come back here, you won't even recognize this building.
I can see it now.
And I got pictures of you guys.
All of a sudden, I just got... You've seen it?
You know what we're working with.
And I know what you're doing.
And I got the interviewer coming back.
And I got a lot of time.
It'll be better if you're resting at night.
You really want to be completely aware of the real visit built-in.
I don't have a phone in the room, right?
I was just going to say, if you want to give me a ring to make sure I'm awake.
We'll come get you and give you 20 minutes to get ready.
Before we go.
I'm good.
I've been doing it for years.
See, look at this edition of the pearl.
I mean, look at that.
Well, we just go in closer to the latest book.
It's a very early phantom.
This could be very valuable.
Really?
Yeah.
Well, it's the second printing, but that's okay.
Put this aside, because Bantams... There's a bunch of stuff that I want to show you.
Bantams are the first paperbacks.
What we're going to do... Did you hear what I said?
Yeah.
Let me just take a look at the condition of it.
Yeah, this is good.
This could be worth like a hundred bucks.
What are you looking at?
You've got to look at the additions here.
I didn't have my tape recording on when I have it, too.
I guarantee there's at least a hundred of these discoveries.
We've got to go through every edition of the... Now open it up very gently.
Two hands.
I'm going to teach you how to do it.
Hold the book in there.
Just frame it like this.
You never want to bring it all the way over like that.
And this is your copyright page, which is very important.
And I just hold it like that so I can get a picture of it.
And I'll tell you about that.
I'll find it when I get home.
You will?
I could even find it.
I could even find it back on AB.
I'll take that back, y'all.
Yeah, well, if I can get on a computer at some point, I'll bring it over there.
And I'll see what it's selling for.
OK.
Those are very collectible.
The first paperbacks are, yeah, because they were... Well, yeah, but it's still very scarce.
It's still 1947.
That's about when the paperback's being invented.
Right.
You know?
I just want to put this in here.
Okay, I need this, right?
Yeah, you do, sir.
I'm going to see if I can still that room inside.
Um, where's my helmet?
Right over there.
Nope, this is me.
You already took a picture of this.
I'm going to take that and go out of your desk.
Testing, one, two, testing, testing.
So the automatic reverse on.
Automatic reverse.
Checking, checking, checking.
At the end.
Getting close to the end.